that those evil butchers were
fabricating the North Korean spy case
in Munich
to stabilize the administration's power
by using the fact that my fiancé was
a student of Professor Choi Seong-muk,
a pro-North scholar.
I held out for a few weeks,
but in the end…
I made a false confession.
A false confession?
They insisted I was the one
who'd been to Pyongyang with my fiancé.
And I told them it wasn't me…
but Yeon-ok.
The woman who fell in love with my fiancé.
So,
my sister died because of you?
Yes, I'm to blame.
Because of me, Yeon-ok killed herself
while being tortured, and my fiancé
became a vegetable
because of all the torture.
TAXI
Safe travels, ma'am.
I visited him once a month
and paid his hospital bills.
And I kept you by my side
to look after you
and justify what I did over and over
telling myself that…
anyone in my shoes would've made
a false confession.
That's a lie! You know that's a lie.
You did that to get back at her
for stealing your fiancé.
If you did it because of torture,
you wouldn't have been
spying for the ANSP.
Right. Maybe…
a part of me wanted to get back at her.
Because I resented Yeon-ok.
I resented her so much.
So you were going to take it to the grave?
I knew it was only right that I should
tell you and your parents the truth
and beg for forgiveness someday.
I knew that very well.
But I was afraid.
I was so afraid, Bun-ok.
The ANSP offered me the hall director job
and told me to spy for them,
and I couldn't say no.
I had no other choice. I…
I just…
had to live.
Didn't you tell me
not to try to only save my skin?
I'll never forgive you.
I will
never forgive you.
Comrade Joo.
The ship arrives in ten minutes.
Comrade Kang and Comrade Lim
must be on their way, right?
They even managed
to march 90km overnight once.
By the way,
it seems Comrade Kang
has feelings for Comrade Lim, doesn't it?
That must be why she came back
with the 300 million dollars.
I got to say,
the power of love is indeed great.
Damn.
Anyway,
the moon looks
just like a songpyeon.
The songpyeon my mom makes